ZAS — v9  (5 files)
Upload everything to public_html/, keeping the includes/ folder structure.

  inv_verify.php          NEW   Stock Health — the cross-check page
  inv_reset.php           NEW   Start Again — admin-only clear-and-restart
  inv_gate.php            EDIT  type-to-find item picker on the item lines
  includes/inventory.php  EDIT  inv_stock_map(); the outward reason now reads
                                Remarks; over-issue errors name the item
  includes/menu.php       EDIT  two new links

New menu entries
  Inventory > Stock  > Stock Health
  Administration     > Start Again (clear stock)     (admin only)


1. WHY THE THREAD FIGURES DISAGREED

Nothing disagreed. Every number on both screens is correct arithmetic on
the same rows:

  received 221, issued 211, balance 10          <- the item total
  Main Store -191 · Production Floor 1 · At Job Worker 200   <- the split

Those add to 10. The item total is right AND Main Store is wrong at the
same time, because a minus in one place cancels a plus in another.

The cause is one document: GOP-2609-0001, a job work issue of 200 CON
raised from Main Store on 08-09-2026. Main Store had only ever received
10. So 200 left a place that held 10, and the 200 that arrived At Job
Worker is real stock standing on a receipt that never existed.

That pass could not be posted by the code you are running now: 200 against
a balance of 10 is 190 short, the 10% allowance on 10 is 1, so it lands in
the admin-only band and is refused outright with no reason on the pass. It
was posted before includes/inventory.php carried the outward check.

There is nothing to refresh. No balance is stored anywhere in this module
— every figure is SUM(qty_in) - SUM(qty_out) computed when you open the
page. That is why there is no rebuild button: if a figure looks wrong, a
ledger row is wrong.


2. STOCK HEALTH  (Inventory > Stock > Stock Health)

Read only. Writes nothing. Eight checks:

  MUST FIX
   - a balance below zero at any location, with the documents that took
     the most out, ranked, each one a link
   - a document marked posted that wrote no stock rows (a post that died
     half way)
   - stock rows whose document was deleted or put back to draft
   - customer-owned goods carrying a value

  WORTH FIXING
   - owned material received at rate 0 (counts in quantity, adds nothing
     to value — every cost built on it afterwards is understated)
   - stored value that does not equal quantity x rate
   - malformed rows (in and out together, no item, no location)
   - rows for an item deleted from the Item Master

Plus a reconciliation panel showing what each document type contributed,
and a document count by status so drafts stop being a mystery.

On your data today it will report one MUST FIX: Main Store -191, naming
GOP-2609-0001 as the document that took 200.


3. START AGAIN  (Administration > Start Again)

Admin only. Type RESET INVENTORY exactly, give a reason, and the reason is
written to the audit log BEFORE anything is deleted.

Four tick-boxes, each showing its live row count so you agree to a number
and not to a word:

  Stock movements            ALWAYS ON — ledger, gate passes, store
                             movements, consumptions, job work bills
  Reservations and charges   optional
  Contracts                  optional
  Item Master / parties /    optional, most destructive. Standard
  locations                  locations are recreated straight after, and
                             Product Costing lines are unlinked rather
                             than left pointing at deleted items.

Never touched by any option: production entries and wages, proformas and
orders, product costings, users and permissions, and your inventory
settings (GST %, tolerances, document prefixes).

Document numbering restarts at 0001 by itself — numbers are derived from
the rows on file, so an empty table already starts fresh.

Prefer the smaller fix where you can. If one document is wrong, open it
and reverse it: the original stays, the opposite entries appear beside it,
and the history reads as what happened then the correction. That is the
right answer for anything already shown to a customer, a supplier or an
auditor. Start Again is for trial data.


4. THE ITEM PICKER ON GATE PASSES

The MATERIAL column was a dropdown of every item; you had to know the code
to find anything, and on an outward pass nothing told you whether what you
picked was even on the shelf.

It is now a type-to-find box:

  - type any part of the code, the name or the group; several words all
    have to match
  - an exact or leading code match ranks first, otherwise the item with
    the most stock leads
  - arrow keys and Enter, or click
  - OUTWARD: only items with stock at the pass's Location are offered,
    each showing its balance. A link at the bottom of the list reveals the
    rest if you genuinely need one. Change the Location dropdown and the
    list re-ranks immediately.
  - INWARD: every item, unfiltered — receiving is what creates stock in
    the first place, so filtering by stock would be backwards.

The <select> is still underneath and is still what gets submitted, so if
the script ever fails the plain dropdown comes back and the screen works.


5. TWO FIXES IN includes/inventory.php

  a) The over-issue error said "put a reason in the pass's Remarks/override
     field" — but the server read override_reason, and no input on the form
     ever set it. The tolerance band was unreachable and the message
     pointed at a box that did not exist. The server now reads Remarks,
     which is what the screen has always told you to fill.

  b) That same error said "That item has 10 here" — on a fourteen-line
     pass, fourteen times, telling you nothing about which line to fix. It
     now names the item: "AC-0001 · THREAD has 10 at Main Store and this
     pass takes 190 more."


6. TESTING

  verify_test.php   59 checks, all passing — the ledger above recomputed
                    from the screenshot, each detector fired against a
                    ledger holding one of every defect, reversed parents
                    proven NOT to raise an orphan, the reason/admin truth
                    table, and the reset tool's deletion order read out of
                    inv_reset.php itself (children before parents, nothing
                    listed twice, production/costing/users never in scope)

  picker_test.js    27 checks, all passing — balOf() and match() lifted
                    from the shipped inv_gate.php and run against a
                    stubbed stock map: the stock filter, location
                    switching, multi-word search, and the ranking rule

There is no MySQL in my sandbox, so the SQL in inv_verify.php has NOT been
executed against a real database. The detection logic was tested through
PHP mirrors of the same GROUP BY / HAVING semantics. Every query is inside
try/catch, so a check that cannot run shows nothing rather than breaking
the page — open Stock Health first and tell me if any section looks empty
when it should not be.
